---
layout: post
title: 1ère journée nationale du neurofeedback
tags: [events]
---

The 1st french conference on neurofeedback took place on january 19, 2016 at Institut du Cerveau et de la Moëlle épinière (ICM), Paris. Though the first demonstrastion of classical conditioning of the human EEG dates back to the 1930s and is attributed to french neurophysiologists Gustave Durup and Alfred Fessard, french researchers have been wary of neurofeedback technology and concept for a very long time. This was probably for good reasons as neurofeedback has suffered for a long time from the reputation of a pseudoscience because the studies were not well designed and because even without enough experimental fundations, the technology started to spread practitioners. However during the last 15 years, neurofeedback research has started to become more rigorous, partly thanks to the emergence of fMRI-neurofeedback. It is only very recently that neurofeedback has started to regain interest from the french research community. Neurofeedack research is still very . Structure the. Psychiatrists and researchers are . This event was free and open to everyone. So part of the audience was made of neurofeedback practitioners, or non scientists . It is interesting to see . The organizer are doing an amazing job at structuring the research in France. Just after Tomas Ros's great intervention, I gave a talk about unimodal and bimodal EEG/fMRI neurofeedback. My feeling was that though the questions of the modality raised interests in a few researchers, it is not yet a primary concerns are not here for the time being. The program can be found [here](http://www.encephale.com/content/download/97633/1791609/version/4/file/programme-journee-neurofeedback.pdf). I presented a [poster](/lorraineperronnet/public/img/poster-CominLabs-Hemisfer.pdf)

